**Confidential Computing Consortium**

**Minutes of the Meeting of the Governing Board**

**31 October 2019**

**Members of the Governing Board Participating in the Meeting:**

-   Stephen Walli (Microsoft) Chair

-   Sergio Leunissen (Oracle)

-   Gilad Golan (Google)

-   Yongzheng Wu (Huawei)

-   Jesse Schrater (Intel)

-   Philippe Robin (Arm)

-   Mike Bursell (Red Hat)

General Members Attending:

-   Richard Searle (Fortanix)

-   Stefan Deml (deCentriq)

Guests and Observers:

-   Ben Fischer (Red Hat) Outreach

-   Axel Simon (Red Hat)

-   Haiwu He (iExec Blockchain Tech)

-   Lei Zhang (iExec Blockchain Tech)

-   Andras Slemmer (deCentriq)

-   Simon Johnson (Intel) TAC

-   Dave Thaler (Microsoft) TAC

-   Nelly Porter (Google)

**Not in attendance:**

-   Xiaoning Li (Alibaba)

**Roll Call and Introductions:** There was a roll call attendance, and
introductions around the table as we had a few new attendees that had
not participated in the Open Source Summit activities.

**Anti-trust Reivew:** As this was a first face-to-face meeting and
there were guests and general members present, we took a moment to
review the anti-trust slide.

**Previous Minutes:** We briefly reviewed the previous meeting minutes
and accepted them.

**RESOLVED**: That the minutes of the October 10, 2019 meeting of the
Governing Board meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as
distributed to the members of the Governing Board in advance of this
meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

Moved by Oracle, Seconded by Google. **Passed** 7, 0, 0. \[Yes, No,
Abstain\]

**Membership:** We reviewed the member list and status of new members
and potential members. Microsoft met with AWS this week and will
continue to meet with them in the coming weeks to encourage them to join
and participate. Google and Red Hat will continue to work to encourage
AMD to join.

**Lyon Events:** We reviewed the week's events. There was:

-   Two Birds-of-a-Feather meetings (Mon, Weds) for developers
    presenting the three Consortium projects. Each was well attended
    with 20+ additional attendees beyond the presenters.

-   A panel discussion in the main conference. Intel moderated a
    discussion with Red Hat, Fortanix, deCentriq, and Arm in the main
    part of the conference. It was well attended (40-50).

-   We sponsored a small booth.

-   Everyone was happy with the engagement. Booth traffic was surprising
    considering we had no collateral and only the main panel on the desk
    as branding. Lots of good conversations and a constant flow of
    traffic. There was consensus that most people seemed to be attending
    two events (e.g. Booth and BoF, BoF and Panel, etc.)

**Budget Discussion:** There was a good discussion as we work to refine
our budget. Time was spent ensuring people understood how we arrived at
the budget as it is (and the approval for the current working amount).

-   Questions arose in the marketing and outreach section to better
    understand what we've spent and how we might tune the plan from
    Outreach members.

-   The TAC representatives also queried what can and can't be done with
    money that seems to be earmarked for the TAC.

-   The Board felt it appropriate to push resolutions requesting each
    committee to refine their asks against the budget.

**RESOLVED**: That the Governing Board asks the Outreach Committee to
provide more detailed budget feedback on their budget requirements.

Moved by Oracle, Seconded by Red Hat. **Passed** 6, 0, 1. \[Yes, No,
Abstain\]

**RESOLVED**: That the Governing Board asks the Technical Advisory
Committee to provide more detailed budget feedback on their budget
requirements.

Moved by Red Hat, Seconded by Oracle. **Passed** 6, 0, 1. \[Yes, No,
Abstain\]

**General Member Representative Election:** The governing board welcomed
general members to the meeting such that they could get a sense of the
work and get to know one another before committing to electing a
governing board representative. We discussed how we wanted to start
moving towards votes for roles in future in the Consortium. We felt
anonymous elections were a good thing. We felted ranked Condorcet voting
was a good thing. The Board resolved to modify the voting process.

Text of the slide we discussed (modifications in yellow):

> If the Governing Board is ready to start the General Member election
> process, we would open an email nomination period on or about Friday,
> November 1, to the General Members followed by a voting period where
> votes would be cast via Condorcet ranked voting, organized by Stephano
> Cetola, program manager to the project, at
> <scetola@linuxfoundation.org>.
> \[<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet_method>\]

**RESOLVED**: That the General Member Representative Election procedures

as described above are hereby adopted and approved.

Moved by Google, Seconded by Oracle. **Passed** 6, 0, 1. \[Yes, No,
Abstain\]

**Additional Agenda Topics:**

1.  Red Hat, Intel, Google led a discussion on whether or not we should
    include an additional lower non-voting tier of membership for
    academic organizations. A number of them might have projects the
    Consortium would welcome, and while it is not a requirement to be a
    member to propose/submit a project, having a specific member class
    may make it easier for such organizations to participate. The group
    felt we needed more information and put an action on the chair to
    investigate further and report back.

2.  Google and Intel led a discussion around whether or not the
    Consortium should be actively recruiting in certain vertical spaces
    (e.g. Telco). The group discussed whether or not we were looking for
    influence and knowledge that could be encourage through guests or
    more direct involvement through membership participation. An action
    was taken by Google to propose verticals and possible candidates for
    discussion at the next meeting.

3.  The group wants to better understand what our program manager can be
    doing for us. An action was taken by the chair to invite Stephano to
    present his role to each of the Governing Board, Outreach Committee,
    and TAC for their next meetings.

4.  The group discussed how we might ensure we better engage our members
    across the globe for meetings (both teleconference and
    face-to-face). An action was put on the chair to poll the membership
    for opportunities to meet face-to-face and to better engage with one
    another.

**Action Items:**

1.  \[Stephen Walli\] Send the budget to the TAC and Outreach Committee
    so they may act on the requests for budget detail. \[**COMPLETE**\]

2.  \[Stephen Walli\] Investigate what other organizations under the LF
    umbrella have done with respect to academic members and report back
    to the Board at the next Board meeting.

3.  \[Nelly Porter\] Propose verticals and possible candidates
    organizations where the Consortium might engage for policy purposes
    or direct membership for discussion at the next meeting

4.  \[Stephen Walli\] Invite our LF Program Manager to present to the
    Governing Board, Outreach Committee, and TAC at their next meetings
    such that we can all better understand their role.

5.  \[Stephen Walli\] Poll the membership to gather information on how
    we might better engage with one another (teleconference times and
    face-to-face opportunities) as a global organization and report back
    to the Board at the next meeting.
