**Governing Board Conference Call -- 7:00am PST**

**12 March 2020**

1.  **Call to Order / Roll Call**

    1.  **Premier Members of the CCC**

        1.  Philippe Robin (Arm) (Acting Chair)\*

        2.  Sergio Leunissen (Oracle)\*

        3.  Mike Bursell (Red Hat)\*

        4.  Dave Thaler (Microsoft)\* (TAC Chair)

        5.  Ron Perez (Intel)\*

        6.  Michael Cheng (Facebook)\*

        7.  Gilad Golan (Google)\*

        8.  Peixin Hou (Huawei)\*

    2.  **Guests / Observers**

        1.  Richard Searle (Fortanix, General Member Rep)\*

        2.  Seth Knox (Outreach Chair)

        3.  Simon Johnson (Intel)

        4.  Stephano Cetola (Linux Foundation, Acting Secretary)

    3.  **Not in attendance**

        1.  Xiaoning Li (Alibaba)\* 

        **\*voting member**

2.  **Agenda Items & Motions**

    1.  The board approves the minutes of the February 27, 2020 meeting
        with no objections, and no abstentions other than the TAC chair.

    2.  The board approves the Outreach expense for Linux Foundation
        Creative Design Support Services at a 'PLUS' level for an annual
        cost of \$15,000. No objections, no abstentions other than the TAC chair. It should be
        noted that the budget subcommittee chair and budget committee
        member brought this to the board with the Outreach chair
        present.

3.  **Action Item Review**

    1.  \[Stephen\] User subcommittee is under discussion. \[in
        progress\]

    2.  \[Dave\] is working with Morgan on the TAC (JPMC). \[done\]

    3.  \[Stephen\] Bringing clarity to the different stages of new
        project approval (TAC vs GB with regards to questions regarding
        trademark search. \[in progress\]

    4.  \[Stephen/Stephano\] Start the process of the F2F in Austin.
        \[done\]

4.  **Code of conduct**

    1.  Stephano will create a distribution list which will be closed to
        voting board members (<conduct@confidentialcomputing.io>) for
        now, and will likely be changed in the future.

    2.  The code of conduct will be updated via pull requests on GitHub.
        TAC will head up those changes.

    3.  The TAC is advised to recommend projects use the Contributor
        Covenant 2.0, and if they want to use another code of conduct,
        they should provide that document and highlight the differences.
        This will be proposed to the board next meeting to vote on.

    4.  As projects receive code of conduct complaints, they should
        notify the reflector so that the CCC can stay informed of these
        issues. This will also be brought up in the next governing board
        meeting for a vote.

    5.  The suggestion was made that we start all our meetings with a
        Code of Conduct disclaimer. Stephen will research that and get
        back to the board.

    6.  Current Code of Conduct Complaints

        1.  A complaint was raised on one of the CCC project's
            repository. This essentially bled over onto a CCC repository
            (governance). The initial complaint with regards to the
            project has be addressed by the TAC and the project
            leadership.

        2.  The TAC GitHub repository where the complaint was logged
            requires that we address this issue formally as the CCC
            board. We will call an executive session of the governing
            board on Wednesday the 18^th^ at 8:00am PST. This will be
            voting members as well as the TAC chair (Dave) and the Linux
            Foundation Program Manager (Stephano).

5.  **User Engagement Subcommittee**

    1.  Discussions with JPMC have been a very valuable part of adding
        color to our decisions and speaking to their specific industry
        and communities. This is an example of how user engagement can
        be of value.

    2.  Stephen will be having a discussion with the Linux Foundation
        directly regarding these ideas.

    3.  We want to minimize the barriers to joining this group is key as
        we want this to be a strong end user committee.

    4.  Ron and Seth have volunteered to help form this committee.

    5.  Dave will put this on the agenda for next week's TAC to see if
        folks would like to volunteer as members.

6.  **Action Items**

    1.  \[Stephano\] Make approved minutes available on GitHub & link
        from website.

    2.  \[Stephano\] Create a distribution list for conduct, currently
        set to the governing board executive membership plus the TAC
        chair. \[DONE\]

    3.  \[Stephano\] Create an executive session meeting scheduled for
        Wednesday the 18^th^ at 8AM PST. Send out reminders for folks.
        \[1/2 DONE\]

    4.  \[Stephen\] Prepare a list of items to vote on for the
        executive session next week (on CoC).

    5.  \[Stephen\] Add Dave to the roll call list slide.

    6.  \[Stephen\] Return to the GB with a discussion around
        canaries.

    7.  \[Stephen\] Look into adding a CoC disclaimer along with our
        antitrust disclaimer to be at the beginning of each meeting. Ron
        and Seth both volunteer to help with this effort.

    8.  \[Stephen\] Speak with the Linux Foundation regarding User
        Engagement Subcommittee. Please also attend the next TAC on
        Thursday the 19^th^ at 7AM PT to bring details for them to
        consider.

    9.  \[Dave\] Please add discussion around User Engagement.

**Meeting adjourned at 8:00 am PST on March 12, 2020. The next
conference call is scheduled for April 9th.**

**Respectfully submitted by Stephano Cetola, Acting Secretary, on March
12, 2020.**
