**Governing Board F2F -- 1:00pm PST**

**Wednesday 27 February 2020**Â 

**Roll Call**  
-	Stephen Walli, Governing Board Chair, Microsoft  
-	Seth Knox, Chair of the Outreach Committee, Fortanix  
-	Mike Bursell, Treasurer, Red Hat   
-	Dave Thaler, TAC Chair, Microsoft  
-	Mary Lee, Microsoft  
-	Aeva van der Veen, Microsoft  
-	Vikas Bhatia, Microsoft  
-	Wim Coekaerts, Oracle  
-	Nelly Porter, Google  
-	Wenjing Chu, Futurewei  
-	Raphael Auphan, Cosmian  
-	Xiaoning Li, Alibaba  
-	Philippe Robin, Arm  
-	Anne Bertucio, Google  
-	Howard Huang, Huawei  
-	Ben Fischer, Red Hat  
-	Jesse Schrater, Intel  
-	Ron Perez, Intel  
-	Naveen Cherukuri, Nvidia  
-	Richard Searle, Fortanix  
-	Omkhar Arasaratnam, JPMC  
-	Morgan Akers, JPMC  
-	Ariel Kit, Mellanox  
-	Yu Ding, ByteDance  
-	Zhengqin Luo, ByteDance  
-	Jazz Kang, Swisscom  
-	Brent Hollingsworth, AMD  
-	Michael Lu, ARM  
-	Simon Johnson, Intel  
-	Maor Cohen, Kindite  
-	David Dunn, VMware  
-	Vikas Bhatia, Microsoft  
-	Brandon Baker, Google  
-	Stefan Deml, Descentriq  
-	Stephano Cetola, Linux Foundation  


**Move to approve minutes**

1.  The committee approves the minutes for the February 13, 2019
    meetings (no abstentions other than the TAC chair).

**Action Item Review**

1.  \[Stephano\] Make the **approved** minutes available on GitHub.
    \[OUTSTANDING\]

2.  \[Stephen\] Poll the membership to gather information on how we
    might better engage with one another (teleconference times and
    face-to-face opportunities) as a global organization and report back
    to the Board at the next meeting. \[OUTSTANDING\]

**Approval of the TAC & Outreach Proposals**

1.  See the Outreach slides for both proposals.

2.  Note that "Integrity" wording has been removed from the slides
    before the vote.

3.  These documents will help us speak with one voice and align our
    goals internally.

**Motions**

1.  The Governing Board adopts and approves the Scoping statement of the
    Technical Advisory Council for the work of the Confidential
    Computing Consortium.

    1.  **Passed** (no objections or abstentions)

2.  The Governing Board adopts and approves the Messaging Framework from
    the Outreach Committee for the work of the Confidential Computing
    Consortium.

    1.  **Passed** (no objections or abstentions)

3.  The Governing Board would like to thank the Outreach Committee and
    the TAC for their hard work with regards to these efforts.

**Outreach Summary**

1.  We have analyst briefings set up for March 18^th^ and April 14^th^,
    see the slides for details.

2.  We will be discussing highlighted topics for analysts in the coming
    weeks.

3.  There is a press release template that has been created by the
    Outreach committee. We will work with new members to guide them
    through that process.

4.  We are also working on messaging around new members that have joined
    recently and will be working with them to create announcements.

**Morgan -- JPMC**

1.  Morgan gave an overview of their mission, data management / protect,
    and strategies.

2.  This short 20-minute presentation begins at around 17 minutes into
    recording \#2 of the face to face.

3.  Action items below for continued discussion around several points in
    this talk.

**Budget Committee Update**

1.  Please do join the committee to help us formulate suggestions for
    the board to approve.

2.  The committee will meet soon to work on requests from Outreach and
    TAC.

3.  We are working to get the projected revenue per month from the LF.
    Part of the challenge here is the fact that many companies pay at
    different frequencies.

4.  Any questions please feel free to reach out to Mike, Stephano, or
    Stephen and we will be happy to walk you through the budget as it is
    quite confusing in its current state.

**Legal Subcommittee Update**

1.  First meeting occurred on February 14^th^.

2.  Meetings will be published soon.

3.  One of the questions that came up was Graphene:

    1.  It is LGPL3, so do we care?

    2.  The general consensus was that if it is an OSI approved license,
        we are fine.

    3.  Also, there are multiple Graphene projects (same name). So how
        do we want to handle this?

4.  We also discussed trademarking around the CCC and confidential
    computing in general.

    1.  We cannot trademark confidential computing.

    2.  Today, we see no reason to trademark the CCC.

5.  Canaries were a subject of discussion and will be covered again in
    the legal meeting at the F2F.

6.  Premier members can feel free to join this meeting **with your
    counsel**. Please do not join unless your counsel is present.

**Next Meeting**

Linux Foundation Open Source Summit in Austin this June seems like the
next natural meeting point (June 22-24). Stephano can work with the LF
to reserve us a space, and we will have better support than Lyon as we
should be able to get a room at the same hotel as the event.

**Motions**

1.  The Governing Board approves the formation of a subcommittee to
    produce a plan for a User Council to engage with user organizations
    to capture input for the Confidential Computing Consortium (e.g.
    user cases, design patterns). The subcommittee will be chaired by
    the governing board chair and all members and user organizations are
    welcome to participate. The subcommittee is expected to report back
    a plan in a governing board meeting cycle or two.

    1.  **Passed** (no abstentions or objections)

2.  The Governing Board approves the TAC expense for CI/CD pipeline
    costs to support the Open Enclave SDK project over the next quarter
    (approximately \$4K).

    1.  **Passed** (no abstentions or objections)

**Action Items**

1.  \[Stephen\] With regards to Morgan's presentation, he brought up
    different patterns that they use. We should form a subcommittee to
    explore what patterns are available currently and how those align
    with our project.

    1.  His presentation is the ideal resource, but here are some
        highlights:

        1.  What user stories and use cases currently exist?

        2.  What roots of trust are currently considered viable (e.g.
            Cloud vs TEE)?

        3.  How do we address clustering enclaves, and moving data
            between them?

        4.  How much trust can be put in the CSP, and what do the
            regulators think here?

2.  \[Dave Thaler\] Reach out to Omkhar and Morgan (JPMC) and invite
    them to a conversation at a TAC meeting.

3.  \[Stephen\] What behavior should we expect from developers on the
    project from a legal standpoint? Also, in general, what does it mean
    for developers when their project joins the CCC.

4.  \[Stephen/Stephano\] Start the process of the F2F in Austin.

**Meeting adjourned at 2:50 pm PST on February 27, 2020. The next
conference call will be scheduled for Wednesday March 12.**

**Respectfully submitted by Stephano Cetola, Acting Secretary, on March
2, 2020.**
