**Confidential Computing Consortium**

**Minutes of the Meeting of the Governing Board**

**October 10, 2019**

**Members of the Governing Board Participating in the Meeting:**

-   Peixin Hou (Huawei)

-   Philippe Robin (ARM)

-   Gilad Golan (Google)

-   Mike Uomoto (Intel)

-   Stephen Walli (Microsoft)

-   Wim Coekaerts (Oracle, joined at 10:42am)

**Also Attending:**

-   Jesse Schrater (Intel)

-   Scott Nicholas (LF)

-   Mike Dolan (LF)

**Not in attendance:**

-   Xiaoning Li (Alibaba)

-   Mike Bursell (Red Hat)

Scott conducted role call and opened the meeting at 10:04 am US Eastern
Time. Stephen raised a question regarding responding to a request for a
quote for another project being set up in a complementary space. Stephen
notified the group he would ask for permission to send the materials.

Scott reviewed the agenda. Scott presented the minutes from the prior
meeting. After a motion and second, it was

RESOLVED: That the minutes of the September 19, 2019 meeting of the
Governing Board meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as
distributed to the members of the Governing Board in advance of this
meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

Scott reviewed the membership and current recruitment status.

Scott introduced the budget and walked through each line in the
proposal. Scott asked that the Governing Board consider approving at
least the Program Management and Marketing budget. Stephen discussed
needs for OSS EU in Lyon coming up soon. Stephen encouraged the
Governing Board to pass at least a partial budget to start doing things
and in particular the Program Management support, helping with booth
coverage and helping facilitate meetings. Discussion ensued supporting
passing the budget. Stephen discussed starting a budget committee for
building a longer term budget plan in a subcommittee.

Stephen raised a question regarding the term of the budget approvals and
Scott explained that budget approvals are on a 12-month basis and over
the course of time will evolve to a calendar cycle.

Stephen introduced the resolution. Gilad motioned, Philippe seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously

RESOLVED: That the budgeting of \$50,000 per calendar year on program
management support and \$195,000 per year on Outreach activities (as
detailed in the meeting materials) is hereby approved and adopted.

Scott reviewed a potential election plan for election of the General
Member Representative. Stephen suggested inviting any General Members in
Lyon to join the Governing Board meeting in Lyon. Mike then asked
whether it would be possible to defer elections until after Lyon.
Discussion ensued around delaying the vote. The Governing Board settled
on using a pre-Lyon General Member meeting as an engagement opportunity
and to invite the General Members to attend the Lyon Governing Board
meeting. The election will be deferred until after the Lyon meeting.
Scott took an action item to setup a general member meeting prior to
Lyon.

Scott covered the TAC and Legal committee meetings. Philippe asked if
there was interest in doing a face-to-face Legal committee meeting in
Lyon. Discussion ensure around the role of the Legal Committee. Stephen
summarized the discussion result as the Governing Board will use the OSS
EU face-to-face meeting to setup an agenda of topics for the Legal
Committee to discuss.

Scott reviewed the plans for OSS EU in Lyon and the various activities
planned for the event. Stephen discussed the reason for two
birds-of-a-feather with OSS EU as they have different audiences. As
there were no options for the day of Linux Security Summit, they chose
an evening BoF the day before the Security Summit as the second BoF to
try to capture the attendees that are available. Stephen discussed the
panel approach for the Tuesday panel at OSS. Stephen discussed the
exhibit booth space and encouraged others to participate in being
available at the booth.

Scott asked if there were any other questions before adjourning the
meeting. Stephen suggested welcoming named alternative Governing Board
members at the Lyon meeting and encourage them to participate in helping
in the booth as well. Scott asked if the Governing Board approved of
requesting named alternates of Governing Board members and the adding of
those alternates to the meeting invites and Governing Board distribution
list. The Governing Board expressed support for this.

There being no other business to discuss, the meeting concluded at 10:56
am US Eastern Time.
