**Governing Board Conference Call -- 7:00am PST**

**13 February 2020**

1.  **Call to Order / Roll Call**

    a.  **Premier Members of the CCC**

        i.  Philippe Robin (Arm)\*

        ii. Sergio Leunissen (Oracle)\*

        iii. Mike Bursell (Red Hat)\*

        iv. Dave Thaler (Microsoft)\* (TAC Chair)

        v.  Ron Perez (Intel)\*

        vi. Michael Cheng (Facebook)\*

        vii. Gilad Golan (Google)\*

> **Guests / Observers**

i.  Richard Searle (Fortanix, General Member Rep)\*

ii. Simon Johnson (Intel)

iii. Stephano Cetola (Linux Foundation, Acting Secretary)

     a.  **Not in attendance**

         i.  Xiaoning Li (Alibaba)\*

         ii. Peixin Hou (Huawei)\*

**\*voting member**

2.  **Agenda Items & Motions**

    a.  The board approves the minutes of the January 16, 2019 meeting
        with 2 abstentions.

    b.  The board agrees to upload the minutes to GitHub once approved.
        A link will be provided on the website.

    c.  The board will review both the TAC scoping document and the
        Outreach positioning document (to be sent to the list) at the
        F2F.

    d.  We want to have a canary associated around each project (note on
        the website updated each month) saying "no government agency or
        other body has asked us to put in a back door". This item has
        been added to the Legal Committee meeting.

    e.  Budget committee will meet at the face to face from 3pm-4pm.

    f.  The Open Source Summit in Austin this June was proposed as the
        possible next F2F.

3.  **Action Item Review**

    a.  \[Stephano\] Find a location for approved board meeting minutes
        to live. \[**DONE**\]

        i.  Options are: 1. Groups.io "Main Group", 2. GitHub, or 3. the
            website.

        ii. We may discuss budget items that may need to be less public.

        iii. We may also have closed sessions.

    b.  \[Stephano/Stephen\] Create a sign-up for the F2F at RSA.
        \[**DONE**\]

    c.  \[Stephano/Stephen\] Get feedback from Scott on where each
        project's acceptance status is at, and report that back to the
        list. Only waiting for the last of the "red tape" around moving
        Intel SGX SDK over to the CCC. \[**PENDING**\]

4.  **TAC Report**

    a.  The TAC has captured their work in defining confidential
        computing.

    b.  <https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/blob/master/scoping.md>

    c.  In this document, there are two voting items for the Governing
        Board to consider:

        i.  Should the term "confidential computing" be narrowly
            scoped to TEEs (or even only certain classes of TEE) or more
            broadly defined? [Section 2](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/blob/master/scoping.md#markdown-header-2-fine-grained-questions) breaks
            this question down further.

        ii. Should the consortium's scope be narrowly scoped to
            TEE-based projects, or be more inclusive?

    d.  Please review the Executive Summary, specifically that there is
        a narrower definition being recommended and that it aligns with
        the Outreach positioning document they are currently working on.

5.  **Action Items**

    a.  \[Stephano\] Make approved minutes available on GitHub & link
        from website.

    b.  \[ALL\] Please review the TAC's [scoping
        document](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/blob/master/scoping.md),
        the Outreach document will be sent out prior to the F2F for
        review.

**Meeting adjourned at 8:00 am PST on February 13, 2020. The next
conference call is scheduled for March 12.**

**Respectfully submitted by Stephano Cetola, Acting Secretary, on
February 13, 2020.**
