# Confidential Computing Consortium

## Minutes of the Technical Advisory Council

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

### Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, November 30, 2023

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [https://zoom.us/j/184384055](https://zoom.us/j/184384055) (pw: 43690)

* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io),
[ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics),
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com)

* **Recordings**: [YouTube TAC Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmfkUJc39uMjaB_I1dYW72I44kr9QzG_B)

## Links

* **Code of Conduct**: [code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io](https://code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **CCC YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome

* Dan Middleton (DM) opened the call at 7:04am PT
* DM welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation
* Ben Sternthal (BS) and Riaan Kleinhans (RK) assisted with the meeting minutes
* DM reviewed the agenda

### Roll Call / Attendance

***Voting members of the TAC***

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

* Accenture - Giuseppe Giordano
* Arm - Nathaniel McCallum +  / Michael Lu
* Google - Cfir Cohen +  / Catalin Sandu
* Huawei - Zhipeng (Howard) Huang
* Intel - Dan Middleton + (TAC chair)  / Simon Johnson +
* Meta - Eric Northup / Shankaran Gnanashanmugam
* Microsoft - Alec Fernandez +
* Red Hat - Lily Sturmann  + / Yash Mankad +

   " + " indicates attending

***Other Attendees***

* Bokdeuk Jeong (Samsung)
* Bo Dong (Broadcom)
* Chris Ramming (Broadcom)
* David Kaplan
* Douglas Covell
* Drasko Draskovic (Ultraviolet)
* Elena Reshetova
* Hani Benhabiles
* Henk Birkholz (Fraunhofer Institute)
* Jeffrey Sheldon
* Jörg Rödel (SUSE)
* Kishore
* Lukas Pawekzyk
* Manu Fontaine (Hushmesh)
* Marc Meunier (Arm)
* Nathaniel McCallum
* Ofir Azoulay-Rozanes (Anjuna)
* Piotr Sawicki (Samsung)
* Roy Hopkins (Suse)
* Samuel Ortiz (Rivos)
* Sal Kimmich (GadflyAI)
* Simon Johnson
* Sung Lee (Broadcom)
* Thomasz Swierczek (Samsung)
* Tom Dohrmann
* Wenhui Zhang (Bytedance/TikTok)
* Yashmeet Khopkar
* Yash Mankad (Red Hat)
* Ye Li (Broadcom)

* Ben Sternthal (LF)
* Mike Bursell (CCC)
* Riaan Kleinhans (LF)

**Welcome New Community Members**

* New community members introduced themselves.

**Meeting Minute Approval**

Dan Middleton (DM) reviewed the minutes of the last meeting and stated that we would experiment with approving minutes via Github.

**Action Item Review**

**Scaling Project Mentors**

* DM discussed the status of this work.

**Timezone Discussion**

* Mike Bursell (MB) discussed the challenges with scheduling meetings that are appropriate for APAC, European, and North American time zones. MB stated that there will likely be meetings that folks can not attend. MB suggested 1 TAC in 4 which is aimed to be at morning UK time/afternoon APAC. DM suggested we try something new in early 2024.

**Project Proposal: Islet**

Bokdeuk Jeong (BJ) walked the TAC through the [Islet](https://github.com/Samsung/islet) project submission document. Discussion ensued.

[project-submission-islet.pdf](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/TAC/Meetings/2023/2023-11-30/project-submission-islet.pdf)

Dan Middleton (DM) brought up having contributions from other companies. BJ stated that they have contributions from other companies, but these companies are not yet maintainers.

MB asked if there were any objections to moving forward with a vote. There were no objections voiced. DM moved for a roll call vote:

* Nathaniel McCallum (Arm) - Aye
* Cfir Cohen (Google) - not present
* Dan Middleton (Intel) - Aye
* Alec Fernandez (Microsoft) - Aye
* Lily Sturmann (Red Hat) - Aye

The TAC, therefore approved the Islet project.

**Project Proposal Coconut SVSM**

Jörg Rödel walked through the [COCONUT SVSM](https://github.com/coconut-svsm/svsm) project submission document. Discussion ensured. 

[Presentation slide deck](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/TAC/Meetings/2023/2023-11-30/TAC_Minutes2023-11-30_COCONUT-SVSM-CCC.pdf)

Clarifying questions asked by Samuel Ortiz, Nathaniel McCallum, Ye Li, Ofir Azoulay-Rozanes, Drasko Draskovic, Dan Middleton.

Follow up questions can be sent to Jörg via CCC slack or email. <jroedel@suse.com>

**SIG Proposal: Kernel SIG**

DM discussed PR for [Create Linux Kernel SIG #196](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/196) and how that would make work more effective. Focusing on bringing CCC and Linux Kernel community.
MB this would help pull all chip makers together and encourage public collaboration.

**TAC Priorities: 2023**

DM discussed the [2023 Plans](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BLsI0hv9ybHl-FBNqHp6bJzy6ng8yKs__556bTqBswc/edit) , requesting stakeholders complete feedback in the 2023 document before the next meeting.

Yash Mankad would like to drive the community development program & mentoring. He would like to engage with the CNCF Mentoring program. But he would first want to know the goals of the CCC mentoring program.

* MB - Previously it was just getting the CC know, going forward cross project collaboration would be good progress
* YM - currently mentoring, mentees have interest to contribute to CCC, but there is no list of who need interns.
* YM would discuss with CCC projects what their needs are before starting
* Sal Kimmich  - Mentorships is a soft job description of maintainers you would like to employ
* DM - Mentorship improves maintainer diversity.

**TAC Priorities: 2024**

DM share the [CCC TAC 2024 Objectives](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l5ekwOC0KhVwmBebaR9WHlFoCrM6mQEQolMo84-4kkk/edit) document and asked members for reviewing before the next meeting

**Other business**

*

Next meeting December 14, 2023

Meeting adjourned at 9:03 am PT
