# Confidential Computing Consortium

## Minutes of the Technical Advisory Council

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

### Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, February 6, 2025

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [Zoom] (https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/94618773737?password=4b2a5cdf-685a-4ea3-822d-24ff7ddab72e) 

* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io),
[ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics),
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com)

* **Recordings**: [YouTube TAC Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmfkUJc39uMjaB_I1dYW72I44kr9QzG_B)

## Links

* **Code of Conduct**: [code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io](https://code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **CCC YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome

* Dan Middleton (DM) opened the call at 7:03 am PT
* DM welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation
* Renu Chauhan (RC) & Riaan Kleinhans (RK) created meeting minutes based on the publicly available recording
* DM reviewed the agenda

### Roll Call / Attendance

A quorum was not needed

#### Voting members of the TAC

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

* AMD - Nathaniel McCallum   / David Kaplan
* Arm - Paul Howard  
* Google - Catherine Zhang+    / Catalin Sandu 
* Huawei - Zhipeng (Howard) Huang 
* Intel - Dan Middleton (TAC chair) + / Simon Johnson
* Meta - Henry Wang / Kenin Hui
* Microsoft - Alec Fernandez  
* Nvidia - Fritz Alder +
* Red Hat -  Yash Mankad + / Ram Pi +
* TikTok -  Mingshen Sun / Yao Zhang

   " + " indicates attending

#### Other Attendees

* Alice Lawrence (SetitSolutions)
* Anderson Sasaki 
* David Quigley (Intel)
* Diona Glaze (Google)
* Drasko Draskovic (Ultraviolet)
* Gabriel Kulp
* Hesham ElBakoury (Innovax Technologies) 
* Henk Birkholz (Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft)
* Jacob Lagerros
* Jason Rogers (Invary)
* James Petrie 
* Jens Albers (Fr0ntierX Inc)
* Leonardo Garcia (Linaro)
* Leonardo Milleri
* Lauren Lochridge  
* Manu Fontaine (Hushmesh)
* Mari Spina (MITRE)
* Mark Novak (JP Morgan Chase)
* Michael Gentry  
* Mike Bursell
* Nicklas Reiersen (IBM)
* Ofir Azoulay-Rozanes (Anjuna)
* Ram Pai (IBM)
* Sakul Gupta (Micron)
* Steven Bellock (NVIDIA)
* Vladimir Haltakov (Fr0ntierX Inc)
* Venkat Nilesh Dadi
* Yash Mankad (Red Hat, Inc.)
* Sal Kimmich (CCC)
* Renu Chauhan (Linux Foundation)
* Riaan Kleinhans (Linux Foundation)
 

## Welcome New Community Members

No one introduced themselves 


## Meeting Minute Approval & Old Business

* Meeting minutes will be approved via Github.

## Old Business

* DM reviewed the old Business covered in the previous meeting. DM explained about the OpenVMM project proposal and a vote called during the previous meeting. The motion was passed to approve the project proposal. However, for those who could not attend the last TAC meeting last week, voting sent out via email and an additional vote from Haung Zhipeng was received. 


### Announcements 
* Annual project updates: RC shared the email to get the annual project review date for the respective quarters and requested for an input. 
* US OFAC Sanctions: Mike Bursell (MB) shared the details of the US OFAC Sanctions. RK further emphasized reading the article. [OFAC Sanctions](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/navigating-global-regulations-and-open-source-us-ofac-sanctions) 
* Tech-Talk & FOSDEM recap: DM shared the list of the important topics which can be covered in the tech talk. Fritz Alder (FA) encouraged having deep technical topics in the tech talks (more variety of the tech talks). DM extended thanks to FA for volunteering himself for scheduling tech talk topics. FA provided the details of the FOSDEM event. FA shared the [link](https://fosdem.org/2025/schedule/track/confidential/) to the recording of the talks presented at FOSDEM. FA also explained different metrics explaining that the talks presented at FOSDEM related to CC were higher in number than the previous year. FA further detailed the topics presented at FOSDEM. FA extended gratitude for the social event at FOSDEM which covered most of the time to speak about Confidential Computing. 

* Job Board: MB also raised awareness about the CCC job board facilitating the CCC members to post a job. Slack channel #confidential-computing-jobs has been created for the discussion around the Confidential Computing job page
* Kernel SIG: Catherine Zhang (CZ) explained that she will follow up with Steve for Kenrel SIG.


## Discussion:   Workload Identity 
Mark Novak (MN) led the discussion on the workload identity. MN shared the slide deck [link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ivcEay0dU80DvsoWaUeWiTjDFrfga3MREWDL2O8U6OQ/edit#slide=id.p) 

Discussion ensued about the need and appetite for a Strong Workload Identity SIG to address topics around Workload Identity. RK would create a Gdrive folder where MN would create a document for interested participants to collaborate. Gdrive folder link is here [link] (https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1tA0XJuYvsBlCgAmi1fRYY_Qn8BY1RMjf ) MN further shared his email address and asked everyone interested in contributing to the proposed SIG to reach out to him to set up a kick-off meeting. mark.novak@outlook.com.


## Tech Talk: Confidential Computing in the Age of AGI: with live demo 
Jacob Laggeros (JL) presented the tech talk to the TAC members and gave a live demo. 
The session unfortunately got interrupted by that hotel evacuation at JLâ€™s location. DM invited him to schedule another tech talk slot at a later stage.


## Tech Talk: Secure Proxy 
Vladimir Haltakov (VH)  presented the talk on Secure Proxy. 


## Any Other Business / Topic Schedule 2025

Topics for the next meeting were discussed and added to the agenda slide.

Next meeting February 20, 2025

The meeting was adjourned by DM at 10:00 am PT
