# Confidential Computing Consortium

## Minutes of the Technical Advisory Council

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

### Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, January 23, 2025 - 2026

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [Zoom](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/94618773737?password=4b2a5cdf-685a-4ea3-822d-24ff7ddab72e) 

* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io),
[ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics),
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com)

* **Recordings**: [YouTube TAC Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmfkUJc39uMjaB_I1dYW72I44kr9QzG_B)

## Links is over here

* **Code of Conduct**: [code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io](https://code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **CCC YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome

* Dan Middleton (DM) opened the call at 7:03am PT
* DM welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation
* Renu Chauhan (RC) & Riaan Kleinhans (RK) created meeting minutes based on the publically available recording
* DM reviewed the agenda

### Roll Call / Attendance

A quorum was not needed

#### Voting members of the TAC

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

* AMD - Nathaniel McCallum +  / David Kaplan
* Arm - Paul Howard  
* Google - Catherine Zhang +   / Catalin Sandu 
* Huawei - Zhipeng (Howard) Huang 
* Intel - Dan Middleton (TAC chair) + / Simon Johnson
* Meta - Henry Wang / Kenin Hui
* Microsoft - Alec Fernandez + 
* Nvidia - Fritz Alder +
* Red Hat -  Yash Mankad + / Ram Pi +
* TikTok -  Mingshen Sun / Yao Zhang

   " + " indicates attending

#### Other Attendees

* Caroline Perez-Vargas
* Daniel Leon
* Henk Birkholz (Fraunhofer Institute)
* Hidde Hooglland
* Jens Albers
* Johan van Zyl (Seal Storage)
* Jorg Rodel
* Ken Fromm (DSA)
* Leonardo Garcia
* Leonardo Milleri
* Lukasz Magiera
* Manu Fontaine (Hushmesh)
* Mari Spina (MITRE)
* Mark Novak (JP Morgan Chase)
* Matthieu Legré (Cysec)
* Mayank Pandey
* Milad Zare
* Nicklas Reiersen
* Ofir Azoulay-Rozanes (Anjuna)
* Paul Howard (ARM)
* Raj Pal (USG)
* Ram Pai (IBM)
* Sakul Gupta
* Spyros Seimenis
* Stefaan Vervaet
* Tyler Fanelli
* Venkat Nilesh Dadi (The SIMI Group)
* Wijnand Schouten
* Wenhui Zhang (Bytedance/TikTok)
* Mike Bursell (CCC)
* Sal Kimmich (CCC)
* Renu Chauhan (Linux Foundation)
* Riaan Kleinhans (Linux Foundation)
 

## Welcome New Community Members

Spyros Seimenis, Lukasz Magiera , Daniel Leon & Johan  introduced themselves 

## Meeting Minute Approval & Old Business

* Meeting minutes will be approved via Github.
*

## Old Business

* DM reviewed the old Business covered in the previous meeting


### Announcements 
* Mentorship: Yash Mankand (YM) shared the details of the mentees and extended gratitude to the mentors for their efforts. 
* DM shared that the 2025 Tech Talk Schedule is open and welcomes more topics feel free to reach out to Fritz Alder (FA). MB proposed the idea of organizing webinars which can be hosted on the CCC website along with Tech talks to spread the word.  
* Annual project updates: DM shared that the annual project schedule will be shared in early 2025.

## Antitrust Policy & Inclusiveness Trainings
* RK briefed about the available antitrust policy and Inclusiveness trainings. MB reiterated the importance of the shared training. DM emphasized that the training shall be covered by the TAC members.

## Discussion:   Workload Identity 
Mark Novak (MN) led the discussion on the workload identity. MN shared that he has already shared the details in the email (for reference). MN proposed to have dedicated people from the TAC members (for example having a separate SIG) for the workload identity for the success of Confidential Computing in the marketplace. Alec Fernandez (AF) appreciated the use cases shared in a link by YM. 
MN emphasized that a stronger collaboration is required. MB mentioned discussing this topic in the GB meeting too. 

## Project Proposal: OpenVMM 
Caroline Perez-Vargas (CPV) presented the OpenVMM project to the TAC members. 
Members of the TAC asked clarifying questions about the project, which CPV answered.


DM asked about the MS Open Source Code of Conduct. CPV shall look into the differences between the Contributor Covenent and the Microsoft code of conduct 

DM asked about copy left implications. CPV said they do not foresee implications.

MB asked about the existing community and how the project would extend the community and if there are other contributors then MS? CPV the project already had external contributions, however most is still done by MS. They are all looking at ways to socialize the project. Looking for more partners and having public meetings. They are also looking for guidance from the CCC on how to reach these goals.

DM ask if their is a way for contributors to become maintainers and if the project are interested in external maintainers. CPV said they plan for it, but would develop the plan with the community rather than use their own internal arrangements.


The motion to accept the project proposal was made by Alec Fernandez and seconded by  Paul Howard.

* Paul Howard - ARM - Yes
* Intel - Dan Middleton (TAC chair) - Yes
* Microsoft - Alec Fernandez - Yes 
* Red Hat - Yash Mankad - Yes
* Fritz Alder (NVIDIA) - Yes

The project has been approved by the TAC. The voting members that were not present will also be offered the opportunity to vote by email. The project proposal will be taken to the Governing Board meeting as well for approval.

AI: Need to send an email to the individual TAC members to vote for those who could not attend the meeting today.

## Tech Talk: Decentralized Storage Network 
Łukasz Magiera presented the talk on Decentralized Storage Networks. 

## TAC 2025 Objectives
DM led the discussion around the TAC 2025 Objectives

## Projects

## SIGs

## Any Other Business / Topic Schedule 2025

Topics for the next meeting were discussed and added to the agenda slide.

Next meeting February 06, 2025

The meeting adjourned by DM at 10:00 am PT
