# Confidential Computing Consortium

## Minutes of the Technical Advisory Council

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

### Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, April 4, 2024

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/94618773737?password=4b2a5cdf-685a-4ea3-822d-24ff7ddab72e) 

* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io),
[ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics),
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com)

* **Recordings**: [YouTube TAC Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmfkUJc39uMjaB_I1dYW72I44kr9QzG_B)

## Links

* **Code of Conduct**: [code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io](https://code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **CCC YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)


#### Voting members of the TAC

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

* Arm - Nathaniel McCallum +  / Michael Lu
* Google - Cfir Cohen  / Catalin Sandu 
* Huawei - Zhipeng (Howard) Huang 
* Intel - Dan Middleton (TAC chair) + / Simon Johnson
* Meta - Kevin Hui + / Henry Wang +
* Microsoft - Alec Fernandez +
* Nvidia - Fritz Alder +
* Red Hat - Lily Sturmann  / Yash Mankad +
* TikTok - Mingshen Sun + / Yao Zhang

   " + " indicates attending

#### Other Attendees

* Bob Reiter (Booz Allen Hamilton)
* Bokdeuk Jeong (Samsung)
* Drasko Draskovic
* Gregory Starkey (Booz Allen Hamilton)
* Henk Birkholz
* Jorg Rodel (Suse)
* Manu Foutaine (Hushmesh)
* Matthieu Legre (Cysec)
* Nathaniel McCallium (Red Hat)
* Nick Vidal
* Nicolas Maeding (IBM)
* Pawan Khandavilli (Microsoft)
* Rachel Wan (IBM)
* Richard Zak (Enarx Maintainer; Booz Allen Hamilton)
* Thomas Fossati (Linaro)
* Tyler Fanelli (Red Hat)
* Wenhui Zhang (Tiktok)
* Vini Jaiswal (TikTok)


* Ben Sternthal (LF)
* Riaan Kleinhans (LF)

## Welcome

Dan Middleton (DM) opened the call at 7:05 am and reviewed the antitrust policy. 

## Agenda 

DM reviewed the agenda for the meeting. 

## Roll Call / Attendance

Since no votes would be occurring in the meeting, attendance was skipped.

## Welcome New Community Members

* Rachel Wan from IBM tried to introduce themselves via chat.
* Bob Reiter from Booz Allen introduced themselves.
* Gregory Starkey introduced themselves.
* Kevin Hui from Meta introduced themselves and expressed their interest in attestation.
* Nicolas Maeding from IBM introduced themselves.

## Old Business

DM reviewed highlights from the last TAC meeting. DM then called out the need for comments and feedback on the Payload Governance Patterns and Mentorship proposals.


## Announcements

Fritz Alder stated that he is the new voting member from Nvidia and that he would be regularly attending the TAC meetings.
  

## Exec Director Update

Mike Bursell was unable to attend and therefore there was not Executive Director update. 

## New Outreach Sig Demos

Pawan Khandavilli (PK) from Microsoft briefly introduced themselves. PK stated that the Outreach team identified demos as a missing part of their events and marketing strategy. PK stated that the team is collecting demos and suggested that videos might be the best approach. PK asked the TAC to submit demos to him and Outreach so they can be potentially showcased at future events. 


## Enarx Annual Review

Richard Zak (RZ), Gregory Starkey (GS), and Nick Vidal (NV) presented the [Enarx annual review](./Enarx%20Review%202024.pdf). Discussion ensued.


## virTEE Demo

Tyler Fanelli (TF) presented a [virTEE demo](./VirTee%20Demo.pdf). Discussion ensued. 

## Project Pipeline

Benjamin Sternthal briefly reviewed the project pipeline stating that the Coconut-SVSM documents are being signed and that a board vote would be soon.

## Budget

Benjamin Sternthal (BS) reviewed the TAC discretionary budget. BS stated that he has created a Technical Community Architect travel budget from a portion of the money that had been allocated to projects.  

## Any Other Business / Schedule

Next meeting April 18, 2024

Meeting adjourned at 08:59 am PT
